## Attitude and Nurture
- Heuristics
	- Mental shortcuts that allow people to solve problems and make judgements quickly
- Cognitive Bias
	- Stereotypes
- Emotional Bias
	- Discrimination
## NZ Culture and identity
Cultural Norms:
- She'll be right
- Number 8 fencing wire
	- Ingenuity and resourcefulness (ability to create or repair machinery using whatever scrap metals are on hand)
	-  Tall Poppy syndrome
	- Straight talkers (Honest and Direct)
	- Compassionate
	- Team players
	- Egalitarian - believe all people are equal and deserve equal rights and opportunities
	- Tikanga Maori importance of te reo, whenua (land), and whanau
## Ngāi Tahu Values
- **Whanaungatanga** (family)
- **Manaakitanga** (looking after our people)
- **Tohungatanga** (expertise)
- **Kaitiakitanga** (stewardship)
	- We will pursue knowledge and ideas that will strengthen Ngai Tahu and our community
- **Tikanga** (appropriate action)
	-  Ensuring that the tikanga of Ngai Tahu is actioned and acknowledged in all of our outcomes.
- **Rangatiratanga** (leadership)
## Ethical Issues and Culture
- Environmental issues  protection and sustainable development
- Labour laws and remuneration
	- Sweatshops/Slavery
	- Child labour
	- Pay Equity
- Health and Safety
- Treatment of Women & minorities
- Intellectual property protection
- Corruption (when in Rome)
## Considering the cultural implications
- Who are the stakeholders?
- Could any stakeholder group or sub-group be considered
	- Minority
	- At risk
	- Underrepresented
	- disproportionately negatively affected by decision
- Consultation is key
	- "Treat people how THEY wish to be treated"
# Flashcards
**Attitude and Nurture**

1. Heuristics ::: Mental shortcuts for problem-solving and quick judgments.
2. Cognitive Bias ::: Includes stereotypes.
3. Emotional Bias ::: May lead to discrimination.

**Ngāi Tahu Values**

1. Whanaungatanga (family)
2. Manaakitanga (looking after our people)
3. Tohungatanga (expertise)
4. Kaitiakitanga (stewardship) ::: Pursuing knowledge and ideas for Ngai Tahu's benefit.
5. Tikanga (appropriate action)
6. Rangatiratanga (leadership)

**Ethical Issues and Culture** 

1. Environmental issues ::: Protection and sustainable development.
2. Labour laws and remuneration ::: Involving sweatshops/slavery, child labor, and pay equity.
3. Health and Safety
4. Treatment of Women & Minorities
5. Intellectual Property Protection
6. Corruption ::: Consideration of local practices when in different cultures