## Supervised Learning
Trained on a labeled dataset. inputs to outputs based on training data.

### Common Elements
- X : the input space (set)
- Y : The output space (set of possible labels)
- D ⊂ X ×Y : Labeled data in the form of D  = {(x<sub>1</sub>,y<sub>1</sub>), (x<sub>2</sub>,y<sub>2</sub>),(x<sub>n</sub>,y<sub>n</sub>)} 
- An unknown process that assignees labels to the elements of the input space (Maps X to Y )
	- f : X → Y  the label for input x is y = f(x);
	- A conditional density function of the form f<sub>y|x</sub> : X ×Y → R<sup>+</sup>.
		- <small>Note:  A conditional density function helps us understand how the probability distribution of one random variable changes based on the value of another random variable.</small>
- F : Set of all functions of the form f : X → Y
- H ⊆ F : a set of hypotheses which is a subset of all functions F (set of functions that we want to consider as a model of what we are trying to learn).
- A learning Alg that can be seen as a function that takes X and D and finds one or more elements  in H that "well-approximate" the relationship between input and output for the entire X
### Binary Classification
|Y| = 2 {True, False} or {Yes, No} or {0, 1} or {-1, 1}
All classification problems can be cast as one or more binary classification problems 
<small>Classification Problems: Where we predict a categorical label for a given input data point</small>
	
## Classifiers as predicates
In this we assume that labels are generated by an unknown Boolean valued function  f : X → {T, F}. 
 - D = {(x, f(x))|x ∈ Dx, Dx ⊆ X }
Where a subset of x which are a part of the input there is one input and one output. No conflicting label for one given x

Cardinality of F (amount of functions) if X is finite == 2^|X| 
### Partial order of predicates
Binary relation *less general or equal over* F<sup>2</sup> (or H<sup>2</sup>) as:

h<sub>a</sub> ≤<sub>/g</sub> h<sub>b</sub> ≡ ∀x ∈ X  h<sub>a</sub>(x) ⇒ h<sub>b</sub>(x)
- For all of X if h<sub>a</sub> returns True so does  h<sub>b</sub>
- E.g. Animal = {... , ... , Bird ={}, ...} Where  h<sub>a</sub> is bird and  h<sub>b</sub>
is animal	


Suppose X = {x1, x2, x3}. Draw the lattice of (F, ≤ g ). Refer to the elements of F by their support sets.
### Consistency
For an h ∈ H, we define consistency as the following: consistent(h, D) ≡ ∀(x, y) ∈ D : h(x) = y 
A function is consistent provided for all of x, y in labeled data function applied to x == y

## Representation
Often elements of H have the same type and encoding. If R is the set of all codes for H there is a function to map a code to a hypothesis.
Decode : R -> H
R = representation domain
Decode takes an element in R and gives us a hypothesis (function that acts as a classifier) e.g. perceptron

often there is no bijection between H and R  (No 1:1 mapping between representation and hypothesis)


